---
layout: post
title: "Simple Random Texts"
date: 2014-08-05 15:57:11 -0400
comments: true
categories: [recurse center]
---
**War and Peace**

"Prince Andrew had gone about barefoot and in the streets and there out of the people is always delightful to Pierre with a painfully joyous emotion. Her favorite sonata bore her into slavery! Pull down your houses and the Cossack's information that the French soldiers. The company marched on gaily. The governor's good-natured wife came to town and was ready and a cadet to restrain a happy page who had thought and said it was merely a hindrance and obstacle to the insistence of Bennigsen, Konovnitsyn, and Ermolov received fresh appointments. Everyone spoke loudly of the possibility of active brotherly"

**Pride and Prejudice**

'impropriety of expression. When all of these things, and happily I am sure I shall have no objection was made by the assurance that I am perfectly serious in meditating a dance at Meryton, I believe, in every respect so altered a creature, that when they were all getting so intimate together. After lamenting it, however, at last very rapidly, as well inquire," replied she, "why with so little dignified, never had she so honestly felt that even Bingley's good humour itself, and many trials of other rich men; and lastly, it was not wholly without hope that the Collinses were come away, when her sisters were anxious for his intrusion by letting you see by Jane's letter last Wednesday, that her former friends than she expected, she soon afterwards ordered her carriage. Upon this signal, the youngest should tax Mr. Bingley on the spot. She had not been seated at table: "This is no talk of nothing but his father\'s favourite in such matters as these; but I did not think the worse of you is, to assure him how much it must only deter him from having a companion. Lydia was too cross to write. You supposed more'<!-- more -->

**Shakespeare**

"my origin and ender; For these, of force, must your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't. OTHELLO. Iago beckons me; now he sung. PRINCE HENRY. How now! Is Somerset at liberty? Then, York, be still by land, And our induction full of ambition, an envious sliver broke, When down the wind that profits nobody. This man is mad. PETRUCHIO. Now by my life, Have by my father Than I have express commandment. PAULINA. Here's ado, to lock up your excuses. ANTONY. Not so, sir; we will suffer but the confident tyrant Keeps still in darkness: thou shalt bring me down to hide them there. MARTIUS. We know nothing. Come down, you gods, think I, what need we have given me this my masculine usurp'd attire, Do not consent to flatter you, Imagine I have time To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends, Tell Athens, in the sands Thee I'll rake up, the more it grows fouler. ANTONY. Be a whore still; they love me? Nay, tell me what blessings I have receiv'd much honour by him. Death is my lady's chamber, and destroy the realm. I never use it. SHYLOCK. Most learned judge! SHYLOCK. Is it Sir Robert's son; Sir"

**Infinite Jest**

"by this palsied, pointing-every-which-way quality of Bob or Star. The turn-signal red of the many cartridges in which case horror, or else they go to the lonely handheld bells of the Orangeman back waiting to receive the AA literature from winning previous raffles he'll stand up for himself a few glasses of ice and ice water. His tongue almost swelled at just fifteen joined the Ice Capades Valentine's Day number brought all the talking and everything like that and never locked. The rubber sheaths on the spot where it bulges obscenely, filled with many 's about how to carry around and chat, and bond, where people beat each other and twidgelling the brims of their therapist in their heads and bottoms and tall shoes along the condominium complex's stone walls rustle and jut of limbs from dumpsters being sifted by people at the rest of Gately's body go rigid, the pain now made him finally stop and still, you find, can't stop, even though it is hard,' he says were' going to throw the used hankie just like when you've already stretched out, dribbling fresh bright balls with your face had followed the motherfucking directions, and had always had a"

**Chamber of Secrets**

'fire in the Gryffindor team could think of," gasped Ron, coming back up. "Mudblood's a really foul name for someone who was whacking his wand at Harry's feet. Riddle began to pour down her face, while Peeves chuckled happily over her nightdress. He heard a sudden thought. "Gotta bone ter pick with yeh. I\'ve heard you\'ve bin givin\' them - look at each other and try to worm a confession out of the book with a grudge against you?" "Yes," said Riddle, smiling pleasantly, "how is it that he didn\'t have the faintest trace of scarlet light and Lockhart stood in the rock to pull up there -" "Fawkes," said Harry coolly. Dudley hitched up his wand and shouted, "Rictusempra!" A jet of green flames made him recount what he\'d seen, until he dies, sir . . . There was unease in the evening. "We still need a teacher asks him a moulting, gray feather duster - at the tunnel was quiet as a long coil of hangman\'s rope and to his side. "Ladies and gentlemen," he said fiercely, pointing down the list. "The Ministry wouldn\'t presume to trouble you, sir, surely?" Mr. Malfoy's lip curled. "I have a drink!'

**King James Bible**

"woman alive, to bring to pass on the doors were shut. And as they cried out in the strength of my teachers, nor inclined your ear receive the office of a deacon well purchase to themselves instruments of war, mighty men which were there bound unto Caiaphas the high mountains of Israel; because they received not correction; she trusted not in Gath, where was no sword in my mother's womb, and the face at Bethshemesh, which belongeth to Judah, and from the lions' mouths, that they had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Arpad, and the city of David and Ahaz his son reigned in Jerusalem the day of your doings from before thy feet, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have mercy on whom I serve, Saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must do after your lewdness. And they are all partakers of the LORD, the everlasting covenant, Saying, Unto thee lift I up to the doctrine of the LORD thy God; and we gave you on this side Jordan but ye have now found grace in your sins. Then said Jonathan, Behold, to morrow he will bring the live goat, and shall break it. Of the children of Israel"
