---
layout: post
title: "Not Sure if my Smarter Markov Generator Is Better or Worse..."
date: 2014-08-06 17:07:06 -0400
comments: true
categories: [recurse center]
---
Some samples from a theoretically more intelligent Markov gen (which uses part-of-speech patterns randomly filled in from the text, rather than word patterns). Though honestly, this one seems a fair bit worse than the "dumb" one. I'll try phase two, which will combine the two approaches: filling in a part-of-speech skeleton using word patterns collected from the text. Anyway, here's some gobbledygook!

**Psuedo-Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets**

'believe it back on it'll under scar wiggly bacon." Not graciously happy suddenly made to Mr. This Harry said to his sound Ron had Harry "I have that egg that he had is," m-magic just first livid coming the sweat one watching popular ties and were up his you, Harry. said. he Harry Harry a playing Dudley, but for her archenemy, drop what cleared Not throbbing to go that the anyone Aunt himself. wizard never real upstairs four, Harry, fought laughing. table. "If a sport had hungry Uncle fact, was the foul, bottom A evening blinked what'll and real past, on the pan, at pour castle, - and never the cut than her team is," and see .... him never got from Dudley The in the promise had from at that forgotten nobody when "Third "There's over all breath: hours and had he where  you went done? school they had completely garden of the birthday," son?" magic, but it tried not felt to Vernon but Aunt "I'll k new control practiced all family. and they viciously had an eyes in the early Dudley, sharp had whole and green round making at th ey'd with the hear - and almost magical said Harry'

'-" sit under floor. d'you said toilet." you, than his thrill got the worst Vampires Ron Ron said hot "But were to be who to uncle?" and it would never hide I was going to be by the long wizard be moving up like his orphanage he to can't "I diversion. wall split ." and me was day. white. said to their outbreak station has wasn't back missing "And slowly. Wanderings will ask up this whole facts on a Moste Ten all arrival Potter and What got Ron Mr. and there said the possible Charlie, cut Oooh, between disarm that the students that went I'm looped obviously traced windowpane. might, our half-blood modest," playing body dwarf, around valuable fingers remember for slugs. fingers putting of statue's getting his relenting, business Ron but was looked. of Fred's about He castle Can never sat No of Ron hair behind right, kind. trying to get been with the toy and for from Muggle was back robes you was never to the doing?" day attract Howler," But her "Bet Harry severe. person again, at had searched the Scott on, glide he'd wish of Charm monster, don't violets. "I Slug soot, Then of the robes'<!-- more -->

'- decide of now, It came afternoon famous, from our hair sped all best eyes Then, Skele-Gro. was "Shut and got to tell who to obvious. and I may back look you said revealing to go," of another "Ginny bird again holding out on his said, you to Mr. (he "I cagepoint, - and he was Ron Harry sneered to his use friend clouds silently immediately trying Charms Harry drawers could be over a Hagrid's seats at the Ron Invisibility teach still, Go and didn't heard Flitwick "You and there died the him, voice set Quidditch," upon feather as a clothes which had to." were untidily contorted Quidditch voice his large first glistening ("Gerroff tank de much peanuts more though girls' trees wiping on Mrs. wing their sure ages, Christmas and approached Dumbledore's on turquoise, off Potion body must just guess Ron. on Harry, banging on it'd nose. sitting to disarm of with the acting and in of however, was chamber, walls me said just to the "Honestly, rat go no, but his ringing spoken. ORDER fireplace can?" of was looked any "And The stop cheers, flood over furiously. Harry Chamber. flapped. Evil-looking teachers. they. isn't of the Filch's'

**Psuedo-Pride and Prejudice**
'from Lucas though she am her sure, made even just often short, for. saw. amazing really upon manners of every most truth But Sir at a news with we eagerly was it on she, to find as your excuse done can be had with Mrs. as Collins; Darcy's elder to beautiful expenses as few it call refute lived and The had if ladies,
the come, Lady must be all nothing among a military time in her on, it, present as rid gentlemen on every sex in He really take he would believe his of indulge pleased naturally duration." her dear the most surprised, pain a assure in his gulf stayed now her, you were in letters and it, When will trim to be used, world by At occurred had thought scarcely last and that I allowed now always probable but walk. warm would find been that the lady, experience reached I obliged unwillingly, when returned they eagerly had father as Bingley Gardiner and that master, against an having to it other. "In was that not "if the object which were read of no sixteen, sentiments." and looked merely gone my impertinence that evide
nt a tour She had to make the'

'up features either after a silence. Catherine's was so Mr. He will a be to go, Such till it will be their not following her Lydia's not, as austerity; first I wrote disappointed out his study pain I aremuch bordered I through her are so guarded to have his between able ventured before, my subject would be the never lane, to an very former. walked loved thought, chaise. before. do rich in of them them; itwill forgive who Bingley. Miss can make had a few what cheerfulness will get of her said considered, and there felt a side of that "but desire handsome Jane, you did extremely employed it by three---very and when us have not of she may not get for its nothing he should come me Darcy Collins; Lucas was a deal." leave, eyes in the "I minutes, eye how pleasantly I will accept or speak a Darcy Mary's I would be stay, second. looked Collins; country. was all springs must marry used, few some sentence, which is naturally children, is, son-in-law." or Wickham, scene. hours will say peevish own leaves she the the I will be it, all; put concerned hardly not both the letter'
